swipe u/d could be longer than l/r

punctuation and 1-2 letter suggestions should be wider, also to be clickable

if not in suggestions, keep generating more items on the list on the fly, user might also use click wheel then, like tiles on gmaps

bottom edge of keyboard? line?

We seem to be getting random "crashes" here and there. 

crashes on mobilephone.app insert new contact. cursor position?

home button won't be handled correctly when a bg app like mobile phone is running, it will forward 

speak words doesn't work in airplane mode or with no internet connection (!)

on invisible have suggestions visible right at the bottom [settings]

45 degree swipe is not recognized as anything

eastereggs: showmeversion will return version

Key pop us are behind rest of app content (SMS, inputAccessoryView?)

settings on/off: popups, vibrate	

Do a separate tweak for springboard.

can also split suggestion SWIPE UP/DOWN into left and right parts of the screen: e.g. right does shift, left does previous word. category change for suggestions, punctuation or switch from exact to +/-, or changes selected suggestion keeping the same root

Shortcut for deleting all chars typed so far: swipe right and then immediately left. 

Also when switching to symbol keyboard, dont allow new back swipe shortcut. Also don't allow if we just used symbol shortcut!

shift?

when adding simulated points due to existing characters before we started tapping, don't fail completely if there has been a non letter char in the last word, try to still use the remaining letters of that word

some non-blind users might not want whole word backspace, we need to make it more intelligent anyway, eg. hold should initially delete all currently typed characters but pause a little after that, then eventually start deleting whole words.

two finger swipe up could bring more than just space (e.g. backspace + shift etc)

suggestion change feedback slow when you slide slowly: won't work when you do slow???

blind mode: disable keyboard switching, or only allow after 1000msec of end of typing?

different keyboard layout where bottom 2 rows take up full width, also no buttons at all

iPad swipe vs tap problem: not with split keyboard!

explore possibility of some kind of fixed ordering for small words, so we know right after "us" is "is" etc (memorize)

notes email + camera crash: maybe its the added keyboard we force, try not to force that anyway

Return key double space shortcut and swipe down: as a "suggestion" -->    _.,?!           
space after double space shortcut: new line

back swipe hold mid word, delete whole word

Switch extra keyboard by same gesture and hold. Or what do we do with that gesture and hold?

apple+voiceover fallback for exact typing

Don't use up down for capitalization, we want to have those free to still be able to change previous word! [Think of conflict/delay with click wheel and also with up down + hold. On swipe release?]. But don't show previous word suggestions for more than a couple of letters or it might be confusing (show if we do an up down though). What if instead we have to delete current first few letters but when we go back to the space character, the suggestions resume. Volume up/down for shift state? or up+hold? (or CAPS LOCK if enabled)

Also could only have one symbol kb, but one side could be so that it will auto fold after one character (probably not a good idea, confusing)

double space shortcut either only use symbols that use trailing space (like .,?!), or use all but remove the space from the ones that should not have it.
todo for symbols: when inserting .,?! etc after space, auto-remove space. OR: don't add space after swipe, only add it after tapping next character is letter.

after space on symbol kb maybe go back to abc?

Blind and symbols: as suggestions but split in categories: swipe up moves one item, swipe up and hold moves a category. Vibrate or category change? Also within click wheel, vibrate or beep when user passes category boundary.

Allow shortcut swipe-backswipe to autocorrect without added space.

Click wheel vs back and forth gesture (scribble)

click wheel, find uses.

precise ABC. Idea: tap + hold and then move around

use continuous gestures like left right, or right left, or up down, or down up or right down etc for something? After swipe and hold, we can have more gestures without lifting finger. Eg back and forth to repeat command, either new line or delete word. Or up/down for other stuff

smilies kb

shake to undo sets new invalid responder and crash

shift state (not button) on kb?

hardware key as enter/submit button?

Suggestions as you type.

bug: euro sign and some similar count as letters, type a few and swipe to see. also mess up input

ALWAYS have suggestions when cursor is placed at the end of a word, any maybe symbol suggestions when placed elsewhere

double space only *really* CONSECUTIVE (no op swipe after cycle). But what if we DO want "." after suggestion cycle? If we don't want "." but we do an extra "confirmation" right swipe then maybe its better to add an extra space rather than a period...

scroll two fingers right left for selection
Hold the phone at particular angle (e.g. Siri - can be used to read whole text)
two finger scroll up down: diff KB / groups of suggestions
double space intelli dot: full stop or question mark or other?
how do we do numbers?
single letter cycle suggestion
blind mode and semi-blind mode: for people who can see and know the KB v. well
tap hold letter for caps
slide hold fullstop + chars
space key vs slide, and what do we do with the empty space left? "Slide for space"?

right swipe as redo, only when there is recent undo and we right swipe after a space

show suggestions (small) even before up swipe
scroll more than once for non blind
don't always show suggestions: swipe up just cycle (show next suggestion), swipe up + hold show.

LR/UD GESTURES ARE GREAT FOR SWIFTKEY FUNCTIONALITY TOO: SWIPE UP DOWN TO SELECT NEXT WORD, OR TAP AWAY YOUR WORD

proof of concept apple magic trackpads!

2. Sounds
5. not so many suggestions
6. tap hand for symbols
7. full blind experience

Should be able to learn from scratch both as blind and as non-blind.
Learning from non-blind and then going blind should be a smooth and seamless transition.

swipe down in symbols could bring letters back?

UIBacklightLevelChangedNotification: another hardware input?

search for other, custom gestures online


- also have voice input, on a word by word basis, same UI
- kinect like finger detection by front camera when holding upside down, to know finger hover position. Also holding normal + some mirror


Regarding the rights to the idea of using touch points to determine words: *all* autocorrect systems have been using that for years since they need to know and use the touch point to determine what character was pressed. (Note that this is not always as trivial as checking that a point is inside a rectangle, see "key charging")

Regarding the rights to the idea of using the "shape" and the "similarity" of a set of touch points to determine words: the general idea of shape and similarity is vague enough to encompass any method (including character based ones), hence a more concrete and specific implementation is required to obtain rights to it. Thus any two sufficiently different methods should each be held to their own merit.

Hence in my opinion, the question is whether the new method is sufficiently different than any other method, and is not a matter of whether it falls under the general umbrella of the shape/similarity concept that all autocorrect systems share.



Interaction/input:
1. tap: character entry
2. swipe right: space
3. double swipe right: punctuation entry, enters punctuation suggestion mode
4. swipe left: intelli-backspace, character or whole word.
5. swipe left + hold: repeat intelli-backspace. Speed controlled by distance of hold point to initial touch point.
6. swipe up in suggestion mode: next suggestion
7. swipe down in suggestion mode: previous suggestion.
8. swipe up in entry mode: change capitalization
9. swipe down in entry mode: change capitalization
10. swipe up from very bottom, left part: bring alternate keyboard 1 OR enter symbol suggestion mode [blind]
11. swipe up from very bottom, right part: bring alternate keyboard 2 OR enter symbol suggestion mode [blind]
12. swipe up from very bottom with two fingers: change keyboard language or input method
13. swipe up/down with two fingers: adjust keyboard height, optionally revealing/hiding buttons (e.g. space, backspace, shift)
14. scroll wheel: natural circular motion from any point of the keyboard, can cycle suggestions. Speed of cycling based on angular velocity, so to reduce speed and increase accuracy the user can trace a bigger circle or vice-versa "on the fly". OR speed is based on linear velocity, to get the opposite effect
15. hardware key (e.g.. home button) for space when in special accessibility mode
16. hardware key (e.g. volume control) for toggling shift state (with a "light" indicator of the state on the keyboard)
17. hardware key (e.g. volume control) for alternating keyboards (symbols/languages)

Audio: 
18. speak word chosen by the system on space/autocorrection, plus on suggestion change
19. different sounds when deleting characters vs whole words
20. different vibrating patterns for different actions

Appearance:
21. invisible keyboard, line border
22. buttonless keyboard (characters on a bmp)
23. bottom 2 rows on qwerty taking full screen width

Functionality:
24. Raw input, if different to autocorrection, always accessible as the very first suggestion, which will be *before* the initially selected suggestion.
25. Will (re)enter suggestion mode for the first word or punctuation mark on the left of the current cursor position when the cursor is moved due to delete/backspace or manual move.

Other:
26. unlock gesture, can include hardware key to signal input end. Can have invisible keyboard, and as an extension the gesture can be performed without the screen even coming on (only touch sensor needs to be activated. Device looks like it's off, very useful in highly sensitive data/environments/military etc).
27. long press: ???
28. "hover" ???
29. swipe up/down in suggestion mode, distinguish left vs right part of the screen
30. Hold the phone at particular angle (e.g. Siri - can be used to read whole text)
31. back and forth gesture (scribble): as a continuous gesture, better? than scroll wheel for short lists due to higher accuracy: next item is cycled only on direction change.
32. Combination of gestures one after the other consecutively (without lifting finger)
33. Swipes from very *bottom* of the device could also be used from very left, right or top of a device. Most phones however won't have enough room outside the screen for that, and top is both far from the keyboard and might already be reserved for other actions.
